Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we will learn how to reduce duplicate code in our project in particular, we are going
to be focusing on our page banner area.
At the moment, I'm viewing a professor detailed screen, and in our previous lesson we wrote code so
that each professor can have its own unique background photo as well as subtitle text.
Right now, let's go take a look at that code that we wrote to power the page banner.
So in our theme folder, jump in to single Professor P..
And here's the page banner code that displays the dynamic background image and subtitle text.
So this takes care of the page banner for the professor post type.
But what about all of our other post types?
Right.
Like events and programs and single blog posts and traditional pages.
Now our first instinct might be to copy and paste and duplicate this code into those other four or five
template files.
But that's probably not the best idea, because then if in the future we ever need to make a change
to any of this code, we would have to edit five or six files instead of just one single file.
So in order to avoid duplicating this code into five different files, let me show you what we can do
right now.
Let's go ahead and highlight this div that has a class of page banner.
So this entire chunk of code and let's copy it into our clipboard and then let's jump in to our functions
file.
So up at the very top here, we can create a reusable, recyclable function.
So function and we could name it whatever we want.
Just to make sense, I'm going to name it page, banner, parentheses, curly brackets and inside the
body of the function.
Let's begin with a comment.
So slash, slash and let's say HP Logic will live here, OK?
And we can replace this with real code a bit later on in the lesson.
But for now, remember that our clipboard is full of HTML, not PHP.
So maybe down on a new line, let's drop out of P and then right before this closing curly bracket that
ends the function, we can go back into B..
So now in between those two lines right here, we are free to paste in our clipboard.
Let's go ahead and save that.
OK, so now that we've created a function named Page Banner with the relevant code back in our single
professor template file, we can go ahead and delete that div with the class of page banner and instead
write in its place.
Let's call the page banner function.
So up on this line we're still in.
So maybe just drop down to a new line and let's just say page banner parentheses to call the function.
Let's go ahead and save that.
And we see that the dynamic page banner on the front end is still working perfectly, OK, so that takes
care of professors.
What about a traditional page?
So if I click about us up in the header, what if we edit the about US page to use a custom background
image and a custom subtitle?
So on the about US page, let's use this edit page link up in the menubar.
And let's go ahead and give the about us page a subtitle, let's say we are a great school that has
been around for a long time.
And let's also go ahead and upload a custom background image for the page banner.
To add image, let's upload a file.
I will use this photo of a building.
Select image down the bottom, right?
OK, let's go ahead and update or save this and then let's use the permalink to go back to the front
end, OK?
And now we need to update the page template to actually use that dynamic data.
So in our text editor, let's jump in to page up here.
We can see that page banner content.
And now, instead of trying to update this code to make it dynamic, let's just delete it entirely to
delete the page banner div and instead in its place, let's call our page banner function.
So up here, while we are still in P new line and let's just say page banner called the function, let's
save that cool.
And now our generic page template supports our page banner.
Now next, let's work on making our function resilient and flexible, resilient in the sense that if
I go to a page that doesn't have a custom uploaded background image like our history, instead of a
blank black background here, we should instead see the default ocean or beach fallback photo that we
were using before.
And let's also make our function flexible for an example of what I mean in terms of flexibility.
If we go to the All Events archive screen, the title and subtitle on this screen are not being pulled
in from the WordPress database.
Instead, this is just custom text that we typed out in the template for this screen.
So, for example, in our text editor, if we go to Archive Dasch event, since this is an archive screen
or post collection screen, we don't want to pull in the title and subtitle for a specific post that
lives in the database.
Right.
So instead we just type out that text right in the template.
So when I say I want our function to be flexible, if I close this and jump back into our page when
we call this page banner function, it would be nice if within the parentheses we could pass it.
Different arguments to control the title, subtitle and background photo.
Well, we can do exactly that.
So check this out within the parentheses.
When we call our function, let's create an array so the word array and then its own set of parentheses
and then in between those array parentheses, let's drop down to a new line to stay organized.
And now we can create an associative array just like we've been doing throughout the course.
Except this time we are the creators of the function, which means we get to make up the names of the
parameters.
Just as an example.
Let's say that title equals hello there.
This is the title.
This parameter name could be anything.
It doesn't have to be title.
It could be pizza or unicorn.
It can be anything we choose because we are the ones that are going to need to be on the lookout for
this name in our function that lives in functions.
Before we update our function to be on the lookout for this incoming array of arguments, let's add
a comma at the end of this line and let's also create a parameter named subtitle and set it to equal
pie.
This is the subtitle, right?
These are just quick test values at this point.
Let's go ahead and save our progress and then let's jump in to functions and let's make our page banner
function.
Be on the lookout for that incoming array of arguments.
So to achieve that within our functions parentheses, we can just create a parameter.
So begin with a dollar sign and then you can make up whatever name you want.
ARGs is a very common name to use here, short for arguments, but you could also call this data or
unicorn or pizza or magic name.
Doesn't matter.
I'm going to go with ARGs because that's just sort of an industry standard and WordPress.
But the idea here is that now within the body of our function, we can dig into this ARGS array and
use whatever info we want.
So for example, let's use the title within this main H1.
Instead of outputting the WordPress title from the database, let's output the title argument that's
getting passed into the function.
Right.
So back in page, when we call the function, remember we've got an array and then we set the title
to Hello, this is the title.
So check this out back in our functions be let's hollow out the H1 and let's drop into P and let's echo
out and let's begin by looking inside our args array.
Right.
We have access to this because we've passed it into the signature of the function.
So down here, look inside the args array to look inside an array, it's just square brackets and then
it's just quotes in the name of the parameter that you're looking for.
So in our case title.
So.
Now, if I go ahead and save this and then jump back to the about us page.
Cool.
Here we see the title that we passed into the function as an argument, but what happens if we call
the function and do not provide a title argument?
So back in our page, HP, what if we delete this title line so we just don't provide any sort of title?
So this is obviously not what we want, so this is where the topic of intelligent defaults comes into
play.
If a title argument is not provided, we don't want it to default to nothing.
Instead, why don't we default or fall back on the title of the current page or post?
So let me show you how to set up a fallback or default value.
Let's jump into functions and remember up here where we have this comment, p logic will live here.
Let's delete that line.
But in its place, let's create an if statement.
So if parentheses curly brackets and for our condition, check in these parentheses, let's say only
if a title was not provided.
So first, let's just try to pull up the title property so we would look inside our args array and then
to look inside its square brackets.
Quotes title.
So if a title gets passed, this is how we access it.
And as long as the title exists or is not completely empty, this will evaluate to true.
But if we want to check for the opposite of that, we can just begin this with an exclamation.
So we're saying only if this function got called and a title was not passed into it.
Only if that is the case, then let's just set the title to the WordPress title field for that post
or page.
Right.
So in WordPress, we know that you can get the current title for a page or post by running a function
named get the title.
OK, now, right before this, at the beginning of this line, let's just set our args array and look
inside it for the title property and then set that to equal get the title.
So this way down in the actual template part of our code, we don't have to mix in any logic.
We can just always output our args title property and we can handle all of the logic decision making
up in this portion of the code.
OK, so we've set up a fallback.
If no title is provided, just pull in the WordPress post page title.
Let's save that.
And now if we jump back, cool.
We see about us on the about us page.
But if we go into page PHP and add title back in.
We see that custom argument value cool.
Now let's set up similar fallback or default behavior for the subtitle and the background photo.
Let's begin with the subtitle.
So back in functions, BHP right below this if statement, let's just create a new if statement.
So if parentheses curly brackets for the condition check.
Let's see if the args subtitle exists and to check for the opposite of that, just begin with an exclamation.
So if no subtitle argument is passed into the function, then let's just set the args subtitle to equal
the WordPress custom field subtitle value for the current post or page.
Right the value that lives in the database.
So to access that, let's call a function named git field.
Let's end this line with a semicolon.
But in the parentheses forget field, we just include the name of the advanced custom field that we're
interested in, which in this case you can't remember.
It was page underscore Baner underscore subtitle.
OK, so this will take care of the logic or decision making.
And then down here in the template part of our function, when it comes time to actually output the
subtitle, let's delete this, the field code.
So now we just have an empty area and instead let's just echo out our args subtitle value.
OK, so if we save that and check out the front end, cool.
We see the subtitle that we passed into the function as an argument, but if we delete that really quick
so in page B if we remove that subtitle.
Perfect, we see that our function defaults to the custom field subtitle for the current post or page.
Now changing gears a bit, let's work on the fall-back behavior for the background photo.
So back in page, when we are calling the function within this array instead of title or subtitle,
you could imagine that maybe we would pass along something named photo and set that to equal a U.
RL that points towards a JPEG.
So, for example, let me paste in my clipboard.
If you want to follow along with this example, you can pause the lesson and go on to the Internet or
Google and just find an absolute neutral to any jpeg or image that you want to test out.
Right.
So in my example, the euro that I just used looks out onto the Internet to pull in this jpeg.
So back in our code, let's adjust our function to actually work with this URL that we pass it.
So let's save this and back in functions.
HP right below our second if statement.
Let's just create another if statement for the photo.
So if parentheses curly brackets and for the condition, let's say only if a photo argument was not
passed along.
So defined that argument.
We can look inside our args array for photo and to check for the opposite of that exclamation.
So if no photo argument is passed along, what do we want to do?
Well, let's check to see if an advanced custom field image was uploaded for the current post or page.
So we will use another if statement and for the condition we want to check to see if an image was uploaded
into the custom field.
So let's say get field and the name of the advanced custom field where users can upload an image.
If you forgot the name, it was page banner, background image.
And this will only evaluate to true if there's actually an image for the current poster page.
So if that's the case, let's just go ahead and set our args photo to equal the perfectly cropped version
of the image that was uploaded.
So we'll say get field, field name was Page Banner, Back Ground Image, but we don't want the original
super high resolution copy.
So right after that, let's look inside the array named sizes and then write inside that array.
We are interested in the image that is cropped to the page banner size.
If this code is a bit fuzzy to you, you might remember that we already used this similar code down
here to pull in a specific sized version of the image, gave it back to the task at hand.
Let's finish out this logic here, because we need one last level of insurance or one last fallback.
So what happens if someone does not pass along a photo argument and the current page or post doesn't
have a page banner, custom field photo?
Well, to handle that right after this inter nested if statement, right after the closing curly bracket
for it, we can say ls and then a pair of curly brackets.
And this is our last line of defense.
So now let's just pull in that beach or ocean photograph that we've been using throughout the entire
course.
So if it comes to it, let's set the args photo to equal.
And then I just want to point towards a file that lives in our theme folder.
So let's call a function named Get the File.
You are I and this function will point towards our theme folder and then we can just tack on a slash
image is slash ocean dot jpeg.
OK, now at this point our logic and decision making for the photo is complete, but let's be sure to
scroll down and update the actual template part of the code.
So here is where we are actually using the you are URL that points towards an image.
So right after background image, you RL and then right inside this opening block, let's just go ahead
and delete everything that we see here inside the block.
So now we just have opening and closing tags and let's just echo out our args photo value.
This is a bit difficult to read because it's dropping down onto the next line.
But you can see ARGs and then I'm opening up square brackets and then photo.
OK, so let's give that a save.
Cool.
So we see that the background photo is that image that lives out on the Internet that we provided as
an argument.
So back in page HP, remember, we said photo equals this.
Now, if we go ahead and delete that, so if we don't provide a photo argument, it falls back to the
advanced custom fields image upload for the current page or post.
And finally, if we visit a page that does not have an image uploaded for that custom field, for example,
if we click on to our history or our goals.
Perfect, we see the ocean or beach photo as our fallback now, in reality, when it comes to traditional
pages like this, we don't actually want a hard code, a custom title as the argument.
So back in page.
Let's just not even provide an array of any arguments whatsoever.
Let's just simply call page banner.
Woops, we see a fatal error message here.
I know what's wrong.
So right now you can follow along with me in our functions file.
We've listed ARGs as a necessary parameter.
So if someone calls the function and doesn't provide it, that it's going to throw a tantrum.
So what we can do instead in our function signature, we can say ARGs equals null and that will basically
make the argument optional instead of required, because now, no matter what happens, ARGs will always
equal something right.
It will at least equal no.
So let's go ahead and say that that gets rid of the error message.
Perfect.
And that's actually going to bring this lesson to a close.
In our next lesson, we will go through all of our templates and actually make use of our new page banner
function.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you then.